CNN's Nic
Robertson and
his crew got an up close view of the ash,
the bullets,
the trail of absolute destruction.
The rare inside look at how the IDF is
fighting comes
at a consequential moment in this war.
As the American president
says the strip's
main hospital must be protected
Now, Israel says the
very same facility houses
a Hamas command complex below it.
And CNN reported the story
that you're
about to see under Israeli Defense Force
Escort at all times.
But CNN did not submit its script
or its footage to the IDF.
And CNN retained editorial control
over the final report You'll see now
driving into Gaza
with the Israeli forces.
It's a war zone.
The conditions of our access
only show officers
no faces of soldiers
and don't show sensitive equipment.
We are passing mile
after mile of destruction
buildings blown, collapsed.
Nothing untouched by the fury of Israel's
hunt for Hamas streets here
crushed back to sand shops.
Everything that we see,
no sign of any civilians here.
And the soldiers have been telling us
that even inside the stores,
they've been fighting things
like rocket propelled grenades
ready to use against them
as they were advancing through this area.
Right here,
a few miles in,
we pull up at a command post.
Soldiers living in blown
apartment buildings.
Every building I'm looking at here,
wherever you turn,
it's destroyed and shut up.
Hard to imagine how civilians endured
the bombardment here.
Our next journey much deeper into Gaza.
We arrive a hundred meters from a battle
with Hamas.
Tanks blasting targets
and nearby buildings.
The IDF's top spokesperson
waiting for us.
We are now conducting an operation
inside Gaza next to Rantisi Hospital.
Israel is facing massive
international pressure
over the destruction of homes.
The shockingly high civilian death toll.
And in the last few days over
it's apparently heavy handed tactics
at hospitals.
We are working the tunnel.
The bulldozers rebuild
the tunnels
that we suspect
that underneath the hospital.
Gary has brought us here
to show the connection he says exists
between Hamas
and the Rantisi Children's Hospital.
We are now here
in an
area between a hospital, a school
and a terrace house.
A Hamas commander, he says, live there.
He points out
the solar panels on the roof.
This is a tunnel that was sliding
like this, the floor.
You can see here,
this is the ladder going down.
The ladder going down.
It's going down.
This is a 20 meter tunnel.
And Lucas here.
Look at that.
Look at the final pool here.
But look down here.
The cables are going down to the tunnel.
Okay.
So they're hard
wired into the water to show you
the solar panels on the terrace house,
provide electricity
directly to the tunnel.
We've run into the robot
inside the tunnel, and the robot
saw a massive door
a door
that is on the direction of the hospital.
We're in what is an active fire
zone here.
You can hear the small arms fire.
The IDF say that's
still clearing that area out.
We're getting down here
just taking a bit of cover
because they say
we're still taking classes.
But over here,
we were able to smell what smelled
like rotting flesh
that is perhaps
buried underneath the rubble.
No, no, don't go up like
that.
Expose yourself
as we move off to the hospital.
100 meters away.
We're still taking fire.
We're still conducting an operation.
Operation conducted by our special unit.
The Israeli Navy SEALs
are researching the hospitals.
Gary later tells us he took a big risk
bringing us into such a combat zone.
It is clear he wants this story told.
We're searching here
to see the connection of the tunnel
to the hospital.
Okay, don't. Don't fudge here.
I won't you where the connection?
We are looking for that connection
as we finally reached the hospital.
It is already getting dark.
A huge hole
has been blasted
through the walls into the basement.
Why is the hospital so damaged?
We'll talk about why he's asking us.
So the
let's this this.
We came to this hospital five days ago.
There were still patients
inside the hospital.
We did not enter into the hospital.
He claims since then,
all patients
were evacuated by hospital staff.
We assist this evacuation,
of course, to make it a safe place
for all the patients in the hospital.
We do not know that
the hospital is entirely clear.
We do not know.
We only entered to this area, which was
which was suspected
because we were being fired.
Gary leads us through a warren
of basement corridors to this room.
This was the armory.
Okay.
This was the Hamas armory.
He shows us a few rusting guns
and some explosives.
These guns alone have potentially huge
implications for Gaza's hospitals.
And Israel's
apparent push to take control of them.
The International Committee
for the Red Cross say
that hospitals are given
special protection
under international humanitarian law
in a time of war.
But if militants store weapons there
or use them as a base of fire.
Then that protection falls away.
In other rooms, he shows us a motorbike
with a bullet hole in it
that he suspects
was used by Hamas attackers October 7th
and nearby possible evidence.
Hostages could have been held here.
We are now in the basement
in the same area.
Yards from the motorcycle, we see a chair
we see a rope.
Here,
a woman's clothes or a woman's
something cover and a woman.
She think a
woman was tied up in this chair.
This is an assumption
going to be checked by DNA
for evidence, Hagar says.
Points towards Hamas
and possible
hostage presents
below the hospital
and by bringing us here to this hospital
and showing us the connection
that you believe
exists between the terrorists
and the possibly hostages.
What does this say
about the other hospitals here? In Gaza?
Cynically, Shifa
Hospital is no bisects by intelligence
to be a terrorist hub.
And also, it's
suspicious also in holding hostages.
This is the best shelter
for the terrible war machine of Hamas.
But the hospital authorities said
they have no knowledge of Hamas
or other groups inside the hospitals.
Is that possible?
I think that's not possible.
It's one hospital
to have this kind of an infrastructure.
We knew the terrorists were here.
We knew we knew by intelligence.
And also we got some fire
from this area, from this area,
from this area.
And we were ready to fire
because what we found an armory.
But so much damage all around here.
There is damage all around
here because Hamas
made it impossible for us to fight him.
He built all this infrastructure
in tunnels and in hospitals
around areas populated.
As we exit the hospital.
It is already dark,
but just getting ready to leave
right now.
The firefight
still going
on, still intense
bullets fired explosions
going on up the street there.
This war
and the controversies
surrounding it far from resolved.
Nic Robertson, CNN, Gaza.